PROFILE SUMMARY

Working as Senior Process Executive for CTS onsite at Google.
Passionate in Frontend and Backend development, analysis, tracking and optimization of websites.
Sound knowledge and experience in:
Front-end technologies – HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and associated technologies and toolsets JQuery, JSON, AJAX.
Server-side technologies - PHP, SQL, MongoDB.
Versioning tools - Git, GitHub, GitLab.
Content Management Systems - WordPress, Magento 1&2, Joomla, Shopify, Wix, Weebly, Bigcommerce, GoDaddy, SquareSpace.
Digital Marketing and Website Tracking tools - Google Ads, Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager.
Strong understanding and expertise in UI/UX.
Comfortable with modern JS frameworks such as Angular.
Expert in developing Responsive & Interactive websites.
Sound Capable of Performance Testing, Documentation, and Deployment on live site.
Experienced working in a fast-paced, dynamic environment.
Able to solve problems independently and in a team, with maximum ownership.
Able to write front-end code that is cross-browser and cross-device friendly, through responsive or adaptive techniques.
Use latest processes and technology in order to build scalable, distributed, and fault-tolerant site/software systems.
Excellent time management, multi-tasking and communication skills.
Strong Data Structures and Algorithms knowledge.
Hands-on experience on using profiling tools well, getting to root causes of bugs fast.
Ability to pick and work on new technologies very quick if and when required.
In-depth understanding of the entire web development process (design, development and deployment).
Working knowledge of the general browser landscape, architectures, trends, and emerging technologies.
Actively participate in the planning phase of development.
Ability to write model code for functional and nonfunctional requirements and help improve the code quality standard across the team.


Google Responsibility :

Research, design, build, and deploy highly reliable, available, and scalable technology products.
Collaborate effectively with associate engineers towards building the right features.
Drive the technical roadmap of the team in collaboration with team associates.
Estimate and manage deliveries of features in a predictable manner.
Collaborate, mentor, and guide team members as may be the need.
Contribute to building process improvements that lend to continuous improvements in the predictability of releases in the specific problem areas.  
Convert product requirements into actionable and tangible items for all stakeholders.
Release estimation, planning and timely integration with other stakeholders.
Continuously discover, evaluate, and implement new best practices to maximize development quality efficiency.
Overall Design - Code, Security, Performance fixes and Optimization.
Delivery of small complete changes at high cadence.
Research and evaluate new methodologies and technologies that improve the quality, reliability, and performance of the development systems and processes.
Apply usability principles and procedures and optimize builds. Reuse through documenting common frontend components that save the business time in executing future projects.
Emphasize a consumer-focused approach in building products that works with both senior and junior frontend teams in determining the prioritization and estimation of new features and improvements.
Current Project: WebTech - which involves working with:
Technologies - HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Framework, Libraries, Git
Content Management Systems like WordPress, Drupal, Magento 1&2, Shopify, Joomla, Shopify, Wix, Weebly, Bigcommerce, GoDaddy, SquareSpace, WebFlow,
Digital Marketing tools - Google Ads, Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager.
In constant communication with other colleagues in the business to develop and deploy Clients content – and ensuring there is a clear establishment of what can be created within what time frame.
Implementing contingency plans in case the website goes down. Maintaining and expanding/enhancing the website once built and Managing a small team was also a part of the job role.


HP 
Understanding various product lines and initiate right response to commercial clients, positively and professionally.
Troubleshooting product related queries of customers and provide remote solutions to problem.
Deal with a wide range of products using a powerful information database.
Documentation of development and improvements workflows.
Consulting with departments or customers on project issues.
Work with customers or departments on technical issues including product design and maintenance.
Preparing reports on project activities, or status.
Participate in customer demos and presentations.
Provide timely and accurate customer feedback to the relevant teams.
Provide support to customers/users  where the product is highly technical in nature.
Provides technical support to field engineers, technicians, and product support teams.
Reports design, reliability and maintenance problems or bugs.
Provide top-quality technical assistance to partners, resulting in high partner satisfaction
Maintain close relationships with key partners, driving issue resolution and facilitating communication with technical support staff
Lead partner meetings to review/prioritize open tickets
Provide input on product and service-related enhancement requests back to Engineering, Product Management, Sales, and Marketing teams.
Learn and keep up-to-date on the latest product features, functionality, dependencies, underlying architecture, and their operational impact.
Share and develop best practices with team members to enhance the quality and efficiency of technical support and contribute to the knowledge base.